Add Social Login topic (#597)
AdobeDocs/commerce-extensibility: src/pages/app-development/use-cases/social-login-sso.md

---
title: Social login storefront SSO integration
description: Learn how to use an App Builder app to bridge shopper sign-in from an external identity provider into an Adobe Commerce customer token for storefront single sign-on.
keywords:
  - App Builder
  - Extensibility
  - Authentication
  - Customer
---

# Social login storefront SSO integration

Social login lets shoppers sign in to your storefront with an external identity provider (for example, Google or Meta) instead of creating and remembering a dedicated Commerce password. An [App Builder](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/) app handles the provider sign-in and then bridges the shopper into Adobe Commerce by obtaining a Commerce customer token. The storefront uses that token to authenticate the shopper's subsequent GraphQL requests.

> The end-to-end flow has four steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The end-to-end flow has the following steps:
```

## Prerequisites

On both platforms, your App Builder app must implement the OAuth/OpenID Connect flow for each external provider you support. It validates the identity token the provider returns. Trust profile data (such as the email address) only after the provider's token has been verified.

This integration pattern requires the `POST /V1/customers/{customerId}/token` endpoint, which is provided by the Storefront Compatibility Package. This package is always available on Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service but requires separate installation on Adobe Commerce on Cloud and on-premises. On those platforms, the package version must be 4.7.6 or higher to include the token endpoint. See [Storefront Compatibility Package](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/developer/commerce/storefront/setup/configuration/storefront-compatibility/install/) for installation instructions.

## Overall flow

![Sequence diagram of the social login SSO flow, showing the shopper authenticating with an external provider, then App Builder bridging the session into an Adobe Commerce customer token](../../_images/app-development/social-login-sso-flow.png)

> The diagram shows two phases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram breaks down the social login into two phases:
```

> 1. **Authenticate with the external provider**: the shopper signs in from the storefront, and App Builder redirects them to the identity provider. The shopper authenticates directly with the provider, so their credentials never reach the storefront or App Builder. The provider returns an authorization code or ID token, which App Builder validates before reading the verified email and name. App Builder then starts a session, stores an internal token, and returns that token to the storefront.

Reviewer: i would break these out into bullets/substeps to make them easier to read.

### Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service

When your app runs on Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service, the following apply:

- **Base URL**: `https://<server>.api.commerce.adobe.com/<tenant-id>`. Find the exact value in your Commerce Cloud Manager instance details. Paths do **not** include `/rest` or a store view code.
- **Store scope**: supplied in a `Store` request header (for example, `Store: default`).
- **Authentication**: an Adobe Identity Management Service (IMS) access token. The admin and integration token methods used on PaaS are not available. The admin identity behind the token must hold the permissions listed in [Where each call runs](#where-each-call-runs), including `Magento_Customer::retrieve_tokens` for the token endpoint.

Obtain the IMS access token with a client-credentials request, then reuse it until it expires:

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://ims-na1.adobelogin.com/ims/token/v3' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  -d 'grant_type=client_credentials' \
  -d 'client_id=<CLIENT_ID>' \
  -d 'client_secret=<CLIENT_SECRET>' \
  -d 'scope=<SCOPES>'
```

> A typical ACCS request:

Reviewer: We don't externalize the ACCS abbreviation, so just say the whole name.
Also, after talking with Margaret, you might consider removing PaaS in favor of calling out both on cloud and on prem

  }' \
  '<BASE_URL>/V1/customers'
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 123,
  "email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "firstname": "John",
  "lastname": "Doe"
}
```

The response includes the customer `id`. Use it directly in the next step. See [Security considerations](#security-considerations) for guidance on the `password` value.

### Generate a customer token

Exchange the customer ID for a customer token.

Request:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>" \
  '<BASE_URL>/V1/customers/123/token'
```

Response:

```json
"eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9..."
```

Return this token to the storefront. The storefront then sends it as a bearer token in the `Authorization` header of the shopper's GraphQL requests.

## Security considerations

When your integration creates a customer account on the shopper's behalf, the shopper never chooses or sees a password. Your app generates a strong, random password only to satisfy the `POST /V1/customers` call, then discards it immediately. The plaintext password is generated in memory, used for that single request, and never stored, logged, returned to the browser, or retained anywhere in your systems.

> Because shoppers always authenticate through the SSO bridge—search, create if needed, then `POST /V1/customers/{customerId}/token`—the password is never used to sign in. It has no role once the account exists; it is set only because the create-customer API requires a value. (Commerce still keeps a password hash for the account, as it does for any customer, but this flow never relies on it.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because shoppers always authenticate through the SSO bridge, you can search for a token or create a token if needed, and then `POST /V1/customers/{customerId}/token`. This password is never used to sign in. It has no role once the account is created. The password is only set to satisfy the create-customer API password requirement. Commerce still keeps a password hash for the account, as it does for any customer, but this flow never relies on it.
```

Just trying to extrapolate this a bit, check that it matches the intended meaning.

Also consider the following when hardening this integration:

- **Internal session token lifetime**: Keep the token your app issues after authenticating the shopper (see [Overall flow](#overall-flow)) short-lived and single-use. Generate it only when the storefront needs it and invalidate it after the Commerce exchange. A long-lived or reusable internal token increases the risk of token theft resulting in account takeover.

> - **Commerce customer token lifetime**: the token returned by `POST /V1/customers/{customerId}/token` is a standard Commerce customer token—it remains valid, and can be reused for multiple GraphQL requests, until it expires or the customer's tokens are revoked. The **Customer Token Lifetime (hours)** setting under **Stores** > **Configuration** > **Services** > **OAuth** > **Access Token Expiration** controls its lifetime. Choose a value appropriate for the duration a shopper session remains valid without re-authenticating with the provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Commerce customer token lifetime**: the token returned by `POST /V1/customers/{customerId}/token` is a standard Commerce customer token, which remains valid, and can be reused for multiple GraphQL requests, until it expires or the customer's tokens are revoked. The **Customer Token Lifetime (hours)** setting under **Stores** > **Configuration** > **Services** > **OAuth** > **Access Token Expiration** controls its lifetime. Choose a value appropriate for the duration a shopper session remains valid without re-authenticating with the provider.
```

> - **Credential rotation**: rotate the IMS client secret (ACCS) or the integration/admin token (PaaS) periodically, and immediately if you suspect it has leaked. Because every call in this flow is admin-scoped, a leaked credential lets an attacker search, create, and issue tokens for any customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Credential rotation**: rotate the IMS client secret (Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service) or the integration/admin token (Adobe Commerce on Cloud or On Premises) periodically, and immediately if you suspect it has leaked. Because every call in this flow is admin-scoped, a leaked credential lets an attacker search, create, and issue tokens for any customer.
```
